= Protokoll

Protokoll is a simple Rails 3 pluggin to simplify the management of a custom autoincrement value for a model. 

If you want to create an autoincrement information on the database, just like those callcenter registration number (2011000001, 2011000002, 20110000003 and on) this gem is for you! If you want to create just an custom autoincrement value, this gem is for you too! =)

All those tricky things to control like every month you have to reset the counter are gone! All you have to do is define a String column and let _Protokoll_ handle the rest:

    # creating an autoincrement column based on Time
    class Call < ActiveRecord::Base
        protokoll :registry_number  # by default it uses "%Y%m#####"
    end
    
    Time.local(2011)
    call01 = Call.create
    call01.registry_number
    => "201100001"

    call02 = Call.create
    call02.registry_number
    => "201100002"

    Time.local(2012)

    call03 = Call.create
    call03.registry_number
    => "201200001"			# restarts counter because if the first item of the year

If you want to use your own pattern, just do this:

    class Call < ActiveRecord::Base
        protokoll :registry_number, :pattern => "some#####thing"
    end
    
    # this will produce
    call01 = Call.create
    call01.registry_number
    => "some00001thing"
    
    call02 = Call.create
    call02.registry_number
    => "some00002thing"

Or use any time based format. You can use in the pattern any combination of:
 # assume it's 2011/01/01 12:00
 "%Y" for year   	# => appends 2011 
 "%y" for year   	# => appends 11 
 "%m" for month  	# => appends 01
 "%d" for day	 	# => appends 01
 "%H" for hour	 	# => appends 12
 "%M" for minute 	# => appends 00
 "#"  for the autoincrement number (use and long as you want)

Using the Time formating string ("%y", "%m", ...) is totally optional. It's fine to use "CALL####", "BUY###N" or any combination you like.

Ex:
    # :number must be a String
    class Car < ActiveRecord::Base
        protokoll :number, :pattern => "CAR%y#####"
    end
    
    # will produce => "CAR1100001", "CAR1100002"... 
    
    # :sell_number must be a String
    class House < ActiveRecord::Base
        protokoll :sell_number, :pattern => "%YHOUSE#####"
    end
    
   # will produce => "2011HOUSE00001", "2011HOUSE00002"...

== Questions & Sugestions
This is my _first_ public gem, so if you have any questions os sugestions, feel free to contact me (use github msg system for that). It will be awesome to hear feedback to improve the code.



This piece of software is free to use.